Project 0 Report
08/27/2024

Kevin Pluas

a) I used wget to retrieve the Nachos tar. After that, I compiled Nachos without issue using the nachos.cs.fiu.edu machine. 
It was accessed from a Windows 10 machine using PuTTy   

b) The tests ran fine without issue. The first test simply ran Halt() which
performs a syscall to halt the system before cleaning up. The second test
executed the same program but in single-step mode, showing the values of each
register at each tick. 

c) Threads in Nachos are implemented as a data structure that contains several pieces of information on the current state of a process
in execution. For instance, it contains storage for the program counter, execution stack, and so on. It also enumerates the current state of
the process such as RUNNING, READY, etc. 


Paras Parani

a) I used VS Code to connect to the wolf.cs.fiu.edu machine. I then followed the steps outlined in the project description to download and compile Nachos, 
which completed without any issues.

b) All commands ran successfully. Running ./nachos inside threads executed the code between #ifdef THREADS and #endif in main.cc, updating testnum, creating a new thread, and running SimpleThread. 
The main and new threads alternated printing messages and yielding control for 5 iterations. Running ./nachos -x ../test/halt executed the Halt function to stop the machine, 
while ./nachos -s -x ../test/halt did the same in single-step mode, showing register values at each tick.

c) In Nachos, Thread class represents threads. Threads have their own execution stacks and states (JUST_CREATED, READY, RUNNING, BLOCKED). 
Threads are managed using a ready list and can perform operations like Fork , Yield to give up the CPU, Sleep to block until an event occurs, and Finish to terminate and clean up resources.


Myrah Bisht

a) I used Windows PowerShell to connect to the wolf.cs.fiu.edu machine and installed Nachos by following the steps in the project file.
I completed the steps without facing any issues. 

b) The test ran successfully without any issues. Running ./nachos -x ../test/halt executed the halt user program, which halted the 
system by making a system call. Adding the -s argument like ./nachos -s -x ../test/halt ran the program in single-step mode, showing
 the values of all the registers at each tick.

c) Threads are managed using the Thread class, which keeps track of their execution details such as the program counter, 
stack, and states. Each thread operates independently but shares the process’s address space, and they are 
organized using a ready list. 